Because consecutive layers are only partially connected and because it heavily reuses its weights, a CNN has many fewer parameters than a fully connected DNN, which makes it much faster to train, reduces the risk of overfitting, and requires much less training data.The main advantage of CNN compared to its predecessors is that it automatically detects the important features without any human supervision. For example, given many pictures of cats and dogs it learns distinctive features for each class by itself. CNN is also computationally efficient.While DNN uses many fully-connected layers, CNN contains mostly convolutional layers. In its simplest form, CNN is a network with a set of layers that transform an image to a set of class probabilities. Some of the most popular types of layers are: Convolutional layer (CONV): Image undergoes a convolution with filters.What is the biggest advantage utilizing CNN? Little dependence on pre processing, decreasing the needs of human effort developing its functionalities. It is easy to understand and fast to implement. It has the highest accuracy among all alghoritms that predicts imagesDisadvantages: CNN do not encode the position and orientation of object. Lack of ability to be spatially invariant to the input data. Lots of training data is required.Next comes the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN, or ConvNet) which is a class of deep neural networks which is most commonly applied to analyzing visual imagery.Both MLP and CNN can be used for Image classification however MLP takes vector as input and CNN takes tensor as input so CNN can understand spatial relation(relation between nearby pixels of image)between pixels of images better thus for complicated images CNN will perform better than MLP
